= Philosophy of AI =
what is intelligence?
  * classically, you test this using the Turing Test
    * interrogation game
    * interrogate two parties, the goal of both parties is to convince the interrogator that they are human
    * if the interrogator can't tell who is the human, the computer is intelligent
  * the objections:
    * the test is subjective
    * why are we basing intelligence on _human_ intelligence? metaphor with flight, we only managed to get off the ground once we stopped imitating natural flight 

intelligence is everything a computer can't do yet.

can a computer be intelligent?
  * substitution argument: if you replace one neuron at a time with a computer chip in the human brain, you would eventually change into a computer, without your conscience or thought process changing at any point.
  * medium argument: no. "carbohydrate racism", there's something special about carbohydrates that allows us to do stuff that computers can't do.
  * formal systems argument: no. mathematical systems are inherently limited in some way; since computers are just formal systems, therefore they inherently have some limitations. we are not formal systems (that's debatable) so we do not have those limitations.
  * symbol-grounding: learning systems manipulate symbols
    * symbols can only refer to other symbols, so how can a computer ever know what's "red", "heavy", "sad" in the 'real' world?
    * so simulated intelligence ≠ real intelligence
    * thought experiment - the Chinese Room:
      * a room with Chinese symbols coming in
      * there's one person inside that uses a book to translate Chinese symbols to other symbols
      * there's nothing in this system that understands Chinese

Mind-body problem:
  * we have the physical body, and metaphysical thoughts
  * what could be the relationship between the physical and the metaphysical? 
  * opinions:
    * mind-body dualism, interactionism: we consist of two parts (physical _and_ metaphysical) --  Descartes 
    * materialism: the mind and body is one thing
    * gradualism: we evolved the mind (intelligence, consciousness) over time

Intentional stance:
  * intelligence/consciousness is "attributed" and "gradual"
  * so the question isn't "will computers ever be conscious?", but rather "will we ever use consciousness-related words to describe them?"
  * if it's useful to talk about consciousness, motivation, feeling, etc., then we are allowed to (or should) do so equally for both humans and machines
  * people have a strong tendency to take the intentional stance, so we will _call_ our computers "intelligent"

Free will:
  * reasons why it can't be true:
    * physics is deterministic, you can predict the next states, so your brain doesn't _physically_ allow free will
    * inconsistent with psychology and neuroscience -- motor areas begin activity 2 seconds before we think we want to do something ([[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQ4nwTTmcgs|Libet's experiment]])
